We hope you are interested in contributing to **CDMS project**.     
We are waiting for you!

#### 1. Fork
Access https://github.com/TSIDW5/cmds and fork it.

#### 2. Getting your fork
Access your git profile and find the cmds repository.

#### 3. Cloning your fork
Clone the project in a folder of your preference to start developing:
If you have ssh set up with git, to clone the cdms project run:

	$ git@github.com:yourUser/cdms.git
    
otherwise

	$ git clone https://github.com/yourUser/cmds.git


#### 4. Enter in your fork

    $ cd cdms

#### 5. Adding reference to main CDMS repository

    $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/TSIDW5/cdms.git

#### 6. Show all repositories in your git instance with this command:

    $ git remote -v

Result will show remotes like this:

    origin	git@github.com:yourUser/cdms.git (fetch)
    origin	git@github.com:yourUser/cdms.git (push)
    upstream	git@github.com:TSIDW5/cdms.git (fetch)
    upstream	git@github.com:TSIDW5/cdms.git (push)

Where:

- The **origin** is your fork. So, you have read and write access on this remote.
- The **upstream** is the reference to main CDMS repository. So, you only have read access on this remote.

## Developing your contribution

#### 1. Go to the master branch

    $ git checkout master

#### 2. Update the origin and upstream repositories

    $ git pull upstream master && git push origin master

#### 3. Create a branch to develop your contributions.
Define a name that reminds what you are developing.

    $ git checkout -b issue_number/type/issue_description

#### 4. Run the commands to check the code quality.

**Note: If the container is up and runing change `run --rm` to `exec`**

Ruby code:
    
    $ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rubocop

JS code:
    
    $ docker-compose run --rm web yarn run lint

Brakeman

    $ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec brakeman --ignore-config config/brakeman.ignore

Rubycritic

    $ docker-compose run --rm web bundle exec rubycritic --format console

#### 5. Run the tests and check if all tests are green.

    $ docker-compose run --rm tests bundle exec rails test
    $ docker-compose run --rm tests bundle exec rails test:system

## Sending Pull Request
Pull Request (PR) is used after developing to send a request to add contribution in the main repository. 

#### 1. Add all changes

    $ git add .

#### 2. Commit and set message to define what was done

    $ git commit -m "message"

#### 3. Update your local repository from upstream and send to fork

    $ git checkout master
    $ git pull upstream master
    $ git push origin master

#### 4. Rebase your branch

    $ git checkout your-branch
    $ git rebase master

#### 5. Send your contribution to your repository

    $ git push -u origin your-branch

#### 6. Compare & pull request button

  Once you push the changes to your repository, the Compare & pull request button will appear in GitHub. Click on it.

#### 7. Open a pull request

Open a pull request by clicking the Create pull request button. This allows the repo's maintainers to review your contribution. From here, they can merge it if it is good, or they may ask you to make some changes.